
Vegan Blueberry Bran Muffins Recipe
Print
Prep Time	Cook Time	Makes
20 Mins	23 Mins	12 Muffins
Author	Category	Method
Madhuram	Muffins	Baking
Vegan Blueberry Bran Muffins
5.0 from 2 reviews
Bran cereal not a favorite in your house? This blueberry bran muffin recipe is the perfect solution to empty the box.

PART 1 INGREDIENTS:
1 and 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 and 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
zest of 1 orange
PART 2 INGREDIENTS:
1 and 1/2 cups bran flakes cereal
1 and 1/4 cups almond milk, divided
1/2 cup freshly squeezed orange juice or unsweetened applesauce
1/4 cup melted coconut oil
3/4 cup coconut palm sugar
1/2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
1 cup blueberries
SUBSTITUTION:
all-purpose flour = whole wheat pastry flour
bran flakes = corn flakes or any other similar cereal
coconut palm sugar = brown sugar
almond milk = any milk of your choice
coconut oil = any oil you would normally use
apple cider vinegar = white vinegar
blueberries = any other berries or dried fruit
PROCEDURE:
Preheat oven to 350F/180C for 15 minutes. In a small bowl stir together 1/2 cup of milk and vinegar; set aside to curdle. Line a 12 muffin tin with paper liners.
In a medium bowl, sift together the dry ingredients listed in Part 1.
In a large bowl, stir together the cereal, 3/4 cup of milk and orange juice. Add the curdled milk, brown sugar and melted coconut oil too.
Incorporate the dry flour mix into the wet ingredients, stirring until just combined. Add in the blueberries too. As always remember to toss the fruit with some flour before adding it to the batter. If the batter is too thick add a tablespoon or two of water/milk.
Spoon in the batter in the prepared muffin tin and bake for about 22-25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the middle of the muffin comes out clean.
Mine was done in 23 minutes. Cool the pan on a wire rack for 5 minutes before removing the muffins out of the tin. Serve it warm or once cooled.
MY NOTES:
If you prefer serving these muffins warm, lightly grease the paper liners with cooking spray to remove the muffins off the wrapper easily.
Do not thaw if using frozen berries.
I have tried this recipe using orange juice and unsweetened applesauce and it turns out great either way. The nutritional inforamtion below is for muffins using orange juice.